# Project 0: Person201

## Obtaining Project Code and Project Details

For details and FAQs, see [this _details_ document](docs/details.md) that has information on git, Java, the classes here, and more. This current file you're reading has project and coding details, but the linked document has more Java and git details, particularly about starting to code. That linked document includes information about project workflow including submitting code and analysis for grading via _Gradescope_. **Be sure to check [the _detail_ document](https://coursework.cs.duke.edu/201fall24/resources-201/-/blob/main/projectWorkflow.md) for how to use Git to obtain the project files, and workarounds if Git doesn't work yet for you. You'll need to refer to this P0 document when forking and cloning.**

## Use of ChatGPT

You'll be asked to engage with DukeGPT/ChatGPT in specific ways to answer some questions that are part 
of the required *analysis* questions that are part of each project in 201. You'll [see those
questions and details in the Analysis section](#analysis) below.

## Goals

* To modify a simple Java class, modify two driver programs, and create a new class to demonstrate understanding of records, classes, methods, and instance variables.
* To learn about running Java programs using the VSCode IDE
* To learn about using Git for project management.
* To learn about CompSci201 workflow for assignments: Git, Gradescope, helper hours.
* To learn about the difference between static and dynamic data sources, e.g., a file on your laptop and data accessible via a URL that can be updated by those in Compsci201
* Engage with dynamic data generated by the Fall 2025 201 class as an optional, challenge activity

## Initial Engagement Points

You can earn five **early-project engagement** points for this project. You must complete tasks as outlined below **within the first four days**
of the project being released to earn the points.

1. Indicate the restaurants at which you've eaten by filling out this form: https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/ZyL0ufxj41 (1 point)
2. Answer questions by running code or using DukeGPT that are found on [the form linked here](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/zWJKDJxFi5) 
about the program in [`ReadRestaurants.java`](src/ReadRestaurants.java).
An example of a dialog with DukeGPT asking about the code 
is accessible [in this downloaded DukeGPT example](docs/gson-reader-close.md) (2 points)
3. Modify the definition of `Person p` in the file [`PostPerson.java`](src/PostPerson.java) program
to represent you, and run the program to post the information for the class to use. You must
submit the same information [via this form](https://forms.cloud.microsoft/r/kyH16BCMzi) (2 points)

    *Note:* For the last engagement points you should use the latitude and longitude (Note that latitude is positive north of the equator, negative south; longitude is negative west of the Prime/Greenwich Meridian and positive east. Durham, NC is (35.9956, -78.9002)) of where you last went to high school, 
You can use your real name or you can use a pseudonym. 
For the final parameter, you **should use the name of one your favorite 9th street eateries**. 
It must be a restaurant from the [JSON file of restaurants](data/restaurants_ninth.json).
 

<details>
<summary>click here to see the output of running the program ReadRestaurants</summary>
<pre>
Peruvian chicken    	Alpaca
Vietnamese & Chinese	Banh's Cuisine
Korean fried chicken	Chicken Bee
Casual market, café 	Common Market
Tex-Mex             	Cosmic Cantina
American pub        	Dain's Place
Mexican             	Del Rancho Mexican Grill
New York pizza, Wings	Devil's Pizzeria
American diner      	Elmo's Diner
Sushi               	Genji
Colombian arepas    	Guasaca
Healthy bowls       	Happy + Hale
Chicken, Wings, Fries	Heavenly Buffaloes
Mediterranean       	International Delights
Sandwiches          	Jimmy John's
Asian fusion        	Juju
Indian and Nepalese 	Kabab and Curry
Japanese ramen      	Kiichi Ramen
Japanese            	Koi Sushi and Hibachi
Indian              	Lime & Lemon
Gastropub           	Local 22
Bakery, café        	Mad Hatter Cafe
Steakhouse          	Metro 8 Steakhouse
Mexican street food 	Mi Calvillo Antojitos Mexican
Southern BBQ        	Moe's Original BBQ
Bakery, Cafe        	Monuts
Sandwiches, Salads  	Panera
Mediterranean       	Parizade
Acai bowls, Smoothies	Playa Bowls
Fried/Boiled Seafood	Sho Nuff Seafood
Oysters/Seafood     	Shuckin' Shack
Fast‑food sandwiches	Subway
Szechuan hot pot    	Szechuan Mansion Hotpot
Burgers, Pizza      	The Loop
Dive Bar/Tavern     	The Tavern
French bistro       	Vin Rouge
Asian Noodles, Desert	Wheat
Poke bowls          	Zenfish Poke Bar
</pre>
</details>

## Developing the classes in Project P0: Person201

There are four steps/code for you to complete, each is described in detail in sections below. **These are designed to be completed in sequence to help you understand Java, the classes used, and programming in general**.

1. Run `Person201Demo.java` and make a change to `Person201.java`.
2. Run `Person201Nearby.java` and change the source of data that program uses.
3. Create a new class, `Person201Farthest.java` modeled after code you download in `Person201Nearby.java`.
4. Modify the code in `CountEateries.java`.

There is an optional/challenge activity for you to complete. That's also described below.

When you fork and clone the project, you'll be working primarily within the src folder with .java files -- many beginning with `Person201`. Your goal is to modify four programs/classes (`Person201.java`, `Person201Demo.java`, `CountEateries` and `Person201Nearby.java`), as well as to create a new program (`Person201Farthest.java`) to generate the desired output. As a challenge activity you'll be asked to determine the top/popular 9th street eateries among students in Compsci 201 in Fall 2025 by creating a class/program `PopularEatery`.  


### Run `Person201Demo.java` and change `Person201.java`

First run the main method in `Person201Demo.java`, the output will be:

```
(037.80N,122.27W) claire, "Vin Rouge"
(001.29S,036.82E) ricardo, "Elmo's Diner"
(040.71N,073.96W) julie, "Alpaca"
names: claire, ricardo, julie
Sam to Fred distance = 424.611 
```

Make changes to `Person201.java` by creating a _default constructor_ and then changing the definition of `Person201 c` in `Person201Demo` that's currently defined as someone named **julie** to 
be `Person201 c = new Person201()` (note: _default constructor_ called). 
You must edit `Person201.java` so that with this change the output of `Person201Demo` will be as shown below. 
See the [*help-doc/FAQ*](docs/details.md) for more details on default constructors. 
Note that the third line is now different since a _default constructor_ is called.

```
(037.80N,122.27W) claire, "Vin Rouge"
(001.29S,036.82E) ricardo, "Elmo's Diner"
(035.99N,078.90E) Owen, "Dain's Place"
names: claire ricardo Owen
Sam to Fred distance = 424.611
```

Now that you've done this, make an additional change to the `main` method in file `Person201Demo.java` by creating 
a new `Person201` object assigned to the variable named `s` as follows:

`Person201 s = new Person201("Ethan", 40.6782, 73.0442, "Monuts");`

Next, change the definition of the array `people` to include `s` such that `s` appears after `c`, e.g., 
`Person201[] datas = {a,b,c,s}`. Run the program,  the output should be as shown here (note `c` still using default constructor):

```
(037.80N,122.27W) claire, "Vin Rouge"
(001.29S,036.82E) ricardo, "Elmo's Diner"
(035.99N,078.90E) Owen, "Dain's Place"
(040.68N,073.04E) Ethan, "Monuts"
names: claire, ricardo, Owen, Ethan
Sam to Fred distance = 424.611
```

You're now done editing `Person201.java` and `Person201Demo.java` !


### Running Person201Nearby and changing the Data Source

Run the program `Person201Nearby`. It reads a data file and finds all the people in the data 
file who are within 50 miles of a person named Ricardo who lives near Seattle. 
The program prints there are 16 people when run as you downloaded the file. 

Change the value of the variable `threshold` until exactly 3 people live within `threshold` 
miles of Ricardo. **Find the smallest `threshold` value that yields 3 people**, 
so that any value less will yield two people. You'll report on this value and how you obtained it in answering the *analysis questions* below.

Lines 11-13 in `Person201Nearby` specify three data sources: a regular text file 
named `foodlarge.txt` in the `data` folder, a `foodsmall.txt` file in the `data` folder (line 12), 
and a URL (line 13). 

How many people live within 50 miles of Ricardo when using the file `foodsmall` as the data source? You should run the program and be able to answer this question given a new data file as well as with the two provided. 

Change the code so that it reads data from the URL specified by the variable `largeURL`. You'll need to call the appropriate method in `Person201Utilities` to read a URL for a file, e.g., rather than calling `readFile` you'll call `readURL`. Verify that you get the same results from the URL as from the file in the data folder --  since that URL references the same data as the file `foodlarge` in the `data` folder. 


### Create and Run a New Java Class: **Person201Farthest**

In the `src` folder create a new Java class named `Person201Farthest` (name the file `Person201Farthest.java`) that has only a `public static void main method` that allows the program to run. When run, the 
method should read the file `foodlarge.txt` in the `data` folder and determine the 
two distinct `Person201` objects that are the farthest apart. 
You may find the code in `Person201Nearby.java` useful in reasoning about the code you write. 
The program should print the two distinct objects that are farthest apart among all the 
objects created and returned when `PersonUtilities.readFile` is called from the code you write.

The `main` method you write *must* use the code below 
```
public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        String file = "data/foodlarge.txt";
        double max = 0;
        Person201 a = null;
        Person201 b = null;
        // TODO: finish this method 
        System.out.printf("farthest distance is %3.2f between %s and %s\n",max,a.name(),b.name());
    }
```
See [the details](docs/details.md) documentation for details/hints.

**If you use DukeGPT/LLMs to help with the code**,  you should indicate that in the comments
of the new class you've written: `Person201Farthest.java`. You should also include Javadoc 
comments in your source code file that include an @author tag. See the files you're given
to help model what the comments might look like.

### Modifying the code in `CountEateries.java`

The code you download includes a class `CountEateries` that reads a file of data, e.g., `data/foodlarge.txt` 
and determines how many `Person201` objects like each of the 38 different Ninth Street eateries (there
are 38 different eateries in the [JSON file](data/restaurants_ninth.json) in folder `data`, 
but only 32 different eateries in the file read for this program: [`data/foodlarge.txt](data/foodlarge.txt). When run, this count is printed as zero/0 for each eatery **until you modify/add to the code in method `countEateries`** which initially returns zero for every value of parameter `eatery`. You'll need to write code to count how many `Person201` objects, say named `p`, in the array parameter `people` have `p.eatery().equals(eatery)`. Write code by looping over the array and checking every object's `.eatery()` value for equality with parameter `eatery`. Copy/paste the output you get into your **analysis questions** document.

The last several lines of eatery data should be:
```
3:	The Loop
2:	The Tavern
6:	Vin Rouge
4:	Zenfish Poke Bar
--------
total = 97
```

## Checklist

Before you submit to Gradescope, check that you've done each of the following:

- Modify `Person201.java` by changing code in one place (default constructor).
- Verify that running `Person201Demo.java` matches the expected output after modifying `Person201.java`
- Add a new `Person201` object in the `Person201Demo.java` program and verify that running `Person201Demo.java` matches the expected output.
- Run `Person201Nearby.java` , find threshold values as indicated, and verify that reading a file and the corresponding URL produce the same results.
- Create a new class `Person201Farthest` (in a new file named accordingly) with a `main` method to find the two distinct (i.e., inequal) people furthest apart from each other.
- Modify method `countEateries` in class `CountEateries` so it finds data appropriately.

## Challenge Problem and program

Using the concepts and code from `PeopleDownloder` and `Counteateries`, write a new class `Popularity` in which you copy/paste and add code so that when the program is executed it determines at least the most chosen ninth-street eatery accessible via the file accessed when `PeopleDownloader` is run, preferably using that code. You can also simply download that data and write a program, but then your program won't be processing data dynamically. You can try to find the top 5 or 10 eateries rather than simply the top one. If you do this challenge problem, you'll submit the program you write as part of pushing to Git, but you should make sure there's a section in your Analysis document that describes your results and the methodology you used in writing the program. If you complete this challenge, you'll gain a great sense of satisfaction and you can earn 5 engagement points as well.

## Submission

You'll submit by pushing your code to Git and using Gradescope. Details can be found in [the details/FAQ](docs/details.md).

## Analysis

Answer all the questions here. As outlined in [this document](docs/details.md) you'll submit a PDF with your answers to 
Gradescope as a separate assignment.

### Question 1 (2 points)
- See this [example dialog with DukeGPT](docs/dukegpt-static-methods.md) asking the LLM to explain something 
about static methods. Choose a Java concept that you have a question about, ask DukeGPT about the concept, and
download the dialog as a PDF which you'll include as part of the PDF you upload to Gradescope.


### Question 2 (2 points)

What is the smallest value of variable `threshold` in `Person201Nearby` that yields exactly three people near to Ricardo. 
Write a few sentences about how you found the value, essentially providing an algorithm for anyone to replicate 
your work so that with a different/new data file they could find the smallest such value **efficiently**.


### Question 3 (2 points)
The online data for this project read via URL is **not encrypted**. See
this [DukeGPT dialog about why it might be a good idea to encrypt](docs/dukegpt-peopledownloader.md) and
provide a few sentences about what makes sense and what doesn't in the answer DukeGPT provided.

### Question 4 (1 point)
According to the `.equals` method of the `Person201` class, when are two `Person201` objects considered to be equal? 
Is it case sensitive for their names or for their 
phrases? (Case sensitive means different answers are returned depending on capitalization). If you use DukeGPT or an LLM
to help answer this question, please include that dialog.

### Question 5 (1 point)

Copy/paste the output you get from modiying the method `countEateries`
in the file `CountEateries.java` based on the description above.

### Challenge
If you complete the challenge, please write up what you found. 

## Grading

Your submission will be graded by the following chart:

| Project Part | Points |
| ------ | ------ |
| Modify Person201 | 6 |
| Modify Person201Demo | 6 |
| Modify CountEateries | 6 |
| Create Person201Farthest | 6 |
| Analysis | 8 |
